Carrying the flag: In modern MMA, most people see an individual art like jiu jitsu as a component of the total fight game. For some, that component is more than for others, but regardless, it is never more than a component. Demian Maia is one of a handful of elite MMA fighters who use only a very pure form of jiu jitsu as his whole game, not a component. His fights look like a perfect statement of the traditional approach to BJJ - takedown, positional advance, working through a hierarchy of pins culminating in submission. In bottom position - recover guard, sweep, submit or stand back up and look for takedowns. That he is able to get such a traditional approach to work at such a high level is remarkable. Even more remarkable is the fact that Mr Maia appears to be getting better at this approach with every fight - remarkable for a man of 38 in a young mans sport. One of the most interesting coaching assignments of my career was helping Chris Weidman fight Demian Maia. Mr Weidman had outstanding jiu jitsu skills, so I was not worried going into the fight - even though he took it on only 17 days notice. In truth however, Mr Maia has greatly improved since then. When he fought Mr Weidman, he was trying to add kickboxing to his skill set. In my opinion this actually reduced his effectiveness and made him an easier opponent to beat. When he went down a weight division he went back to his jiu jitsu and refined it in a way that has made him far better now than he was earlier. His traditional jiu jitsu style has not proven popular with many MMA fans, but he will always be one of my favorites. In a world of trash talking, brawling entertainers, he stands out as a man who has dedicated his life to control - both of himself and his opponents - so that he can achieve the martial ideal of bloodless victories in a violent sport. All MMA fighters use some jiu jitsu, but I cherish watching the fights of this man who uses nothing but jiu jitsu. He has a tough fight ahead with Carlos Condit, but win or lose, I will always appreciate the exceptional work of this lone flag bearer of our sport.
