Expertise: When we think of expertise in jiu jitsu we typically equate it with skill level on the mat - how good are you at performing the various moves and tactics of the sport and applying them against skilled opponents? It is important to realize however,  that expertise is a concept with many faces. One of the most important elements of expertise and one which makes it easy to distinguish beginner from expert, is the ability of an expert to make significant distinctions between events and situations that the beginner simply does not see. Most people are familiar with the often used example of Alaskan natives (Inuit or Eskimo) and their vocabulary for "snow." Most people typically use the word "snow" to apply to any situation where white powdery condensation falls from the sky in winter. For our purposes, one word, "snow" conveys enough information to get the job done. The Alaskan natives however, live most of their lives in snow. They must be able to travel, hunt, fish, derive water, build shelter etc in snowy conditions. As such, they need to be able to make fine grained distinctions between different kinds of snowfall, as this can have very important consequences for their actions. Accordingly they have a vast number of different words for "snow" each describing subtle, but very important, types of snow that I simply do not see or make. As such, they have an experts view of snow, whilst I have a naive beginners view and our respective vocabularies reveal that. So too in jiu jitsu. When the squad talks about a given move like "ashi garami" together in training, we have a complex vocabulary to match each of the many subtle but important distinctions that will make the difference between success and failure when applying the move on a skilled opponent. Thus we will talk about irimi ashi garami, outside ashi garami, ushiro ashi garami etc etc so that we can easily coach each other and indeed ourselves, to make those subtle but important distinctions that demarcate success and failure. So much of what we call expertise is exactly this - the ability to make fine grained, but relevant distinctions, that others do not. Here the squad works on irimi ashi garami
