JFK - California bound: Waiting at JFK after another missed flight 😂😂 Looking forward to meeting up with squad members as they prepare for action on Saturday. Gordon Ryan, Nicky Ryan and Garry Tonon will match up with three extremely talented Brazilian Grapplers - all three with an outstanding pedigree and competition record. As always with the squad, it's been a rough last week with minor mishaps, illnesses, miscalculations and general tom foolery 😜😜 but come Saturday we will be ready for action and ready to put on a show at studio 540 in San Diego. I leave a frigid NYC for the sunshine and smiles of Southern California 😊😊 Always a good feeling! The squad continues to impress me with their continual technical development - so many new moves and tactics added to their always expanding repertoire. They face a very tough test on Saturday however. Young Nicky, just 15 years old will take on 19 year Kennedy Maciel, current world champion at purple belt and son of Ruben Charles - "Cobrinha" Mr Maciel exhibits the same superb sense of movement and transition as his illustrious father and clearly has a big future ahead of him. Kim Terra, brother of jiu jitsu icon Caio Terra, has carved out a fine competition record of his own. These two brothers are known for the depth of their technical knowledge and this will be a fascinating stylistic contrast to be sure. Felipe Pena will square off with Gordon Ryan in the main event. Mr Pena is at the top of the jiu jitsu world both gi and no gi. I well remember his outstanding performance at the last ADCC. He is a mix of physical power with very refined technique that enabled him to go toe to toe with the heavyweight icon Rodolphe Viera - in a titanic struggle he showed he can go for extended periods of time against the world's best. He is a tremendous opponent. Sitting on plastic chairs at the airport, listening to the muzak, eating the lousy food, watching people scuttle by is usually pretty damn boring, but the thought of getting the squad ready for this epic challenge makes it much more exciting! 😊😊
