The real significance of this week in Judo: Without question this has been the most successful week in American Olympic judo history. However, few people understand the deeper significance of what happened this week. A truly great Judoka, Isao Okano was once talking to a foreigner studying judo in Japan. He noted the foreigner was making a concerted effort to be as Japanese as possible- he was not just learning judo - he was learning to be Japanese. Okano remonstrated him, saying, "don't try to be Japanese, try to be the best American living in Japan studying Judo that you can be." He was making a very important point. When you try to copy another person or cultures style, you lose your own identity and usually you never perform as well as the person you copied. A much better approach is to build a style that may have components you took from other influences, but whose totality is uniquely your own. This is exactly what Jimmy Pedro is doing so successfully with USA Judo. He is creating a unique American approach to the sport based around disciplined gripping, superior transitions from standing to ground and very strong ne waza attacks on the floor to create a winning team and great success. American judo always seemed to suffer from a lack of identity. Attempts to copy Japanese and European models bought only limited success. Mr Pedro has found a style quite different  from our competitors and has forged a winning team with it. Interestingly, this style goes in direct opposition to the current rules of modern judo, which greatly favor athletes who use mostly standing technique, but such is the strength of his approach that his athletes are winning regardless. The future will tell if this model will be able to survive the rule set of the modern sport, but the results so far are more promising than anything we have seen in American judo history. With the rise of grappling as a sport in North America and the cross training many athletes partake in, American ne waza will only get stronger and hopefully create a new generation of athletes for this burgeoning American approach to the sport and the strong sense of identity it has created 🇺🇸🇺🇸🇺🇸
