Ne waza, tachi waza and the uniqueness of BJJ: Of all the grappling arts, BJJ probably puts the least emphasis on takedown skill. This is reflected in the points system, where takedowns score only half as much as the favored pins and there is no penalty for simply sitting straight down into ground grappling (ne waza). This under emphasis of standing techniques (tachi waza) has been a constant source of criticism over the years. As a general rule I believe that standing techniques have been underdeveloped in BJJ and that this must be addressed at some point, either as individuals (by independently studying other grappling arts such as judo or wrestling) or as a community (by changing the way the art as a whole is practiced and taught). This however, is not the topic I wish to discuss here tonight. There is another topic that few have discussed which gets little attention in the BJJ/takedowns argument, but which is of the first importance in this debate. BJJ is a ne waza-centric art. Its primary emphasis is on control on the ground. Judo and wrestling are tachi-waza-centric. Their primary concern is on the takedown itself, with a strong reward system for amplitude and power on the takedown. This creates two very different concerns on the part of the person performing the takedown in each sport. In jiu jitsu, the primary interest in the takedown is in WHAT HAPPENS IMMEDIATELY AFTER THE TAKEDOWN. It is no good if you perform a fine takedown/throw but finish in a stranglehold or bad position in the aftermath - the value of a takedown/throw can be completely negated by a bad outcome on the ground AFTER the throw is completed. In a grappling style where the primary emphasis is on the throw/takedown, the amplitude of the throw becomes the only concern with no regard for the aftermath once the two combatants hit the mat. My point is this - the issue of BJJ and takedowns is not only the issue of how to get people more proficient at them, but the secondary issue that is largely ignored- HOW ARE WE TO MODIFY THEM TO MAKE THEM APPROPRIATE FOR A NE WAZA-CENTRIC ART? This to me is the more interesting project and the one which will lead to future innovations in the sport
