Two kinds of strength - two approaches to combat: This weekend welterweight champion Tyron Woodley takes on jiu jitsu master, Demian Maia in what will be a fascinating contrast not only in fighting style, but body type. It is rare these days to see such diametrically opposed approaches to fighting. Mr Woodley is one of the most explosive fighters ever seen in the octagon - just a single blow from his right hand is fully capable of ending a fight at any time in a match against anyone in the division. His body is perfectly disposed to create explosive power, and accordingly he has created a fighting style based around that. Mr Maia on the other hand, almost completely lacks explosive power, but excels in isometric tension and static strength. If he secures a controlling grip and position, he is capable of holding it indefinitely all the way through to a finish against anyone in the division. Their modus operandi is so different, yet equally deadly. One gets the impression that if either man can assert their mode of strength under their conditions, they shall win easily - but who will be able to do so? That's what makes this such a fascinating battle. Normally in modern MMA, the two athletes have fairly similar, well rounded skills, which usually results in very even matches - but here the contrast is so extreme it would seem whoever can get their strength in place first will win comfortably. Behind this fascinating match up there is a valuable lesson for us all - the correlation of fighting style with body type. Our body is the medium through which we must express our skills; as such it is critical that we choose wisely our techniques, strategy and style. The better our choices in this regard, the easier the task of maximizing our effectiveness in combat. It is wonderful to see even at this level, the many possible means to combat effectiveness offer such divergent approaches equal opportunity to championship glory. This match posits the critical questions we must always ask ourselves - WHAT ARE MY PERSONAL STRENGTHS AND WHAT AM I DOING TO MAXIMIZE THEIR VALUE IN TRAINING AND COMPETITION?
