Basic and advanced: One of my favorite coaching memories of 2016 was Garry Tonon's spectacular submission win over world champion Gilbert "Durinho" Burns in England at Polaris grappling. Mr Burns was a formidable opponent, considerably heavier and stronger than Mr Tonon and with tremendous takedown and positional skills. After a sharp exchange of skills, Mr Tonon was able to utilize a rolling entry into one of our favorite ashi garami variations and secure a brilliant victory by way of heel hook. The video captures the action well. Most people are impressed by the fluidity and confidence with which Mr Tonon entered and completed this rarely seen and seemingly spectacular entry from standing position down to the floor. In truth however, the move is founded upon the most basic movement in the sport - a simple forward roll that we all learned on our first day as a means of falling safely to the mats. This says much about our sport. The most complex and advanced moves all rest upon the most basic as their foundation. That Mr Tonon is so proficient in these types of entry is no accident. He is truly a master of ukemi waza - rolling and falling technique. Every day he uses it as his warm up. I must have seen him perform it many thousands of times - yet to this day he impresses me with the ease and fluidity with which he performs these essential basic skills before class. It is this daily drilling and perfection of this simple skill that makes it so easy for him to perform much more advanced variations at the big shows. THE SKILLS OF JIU JITSU ARE STRONGLY SEQUENTIAL - THERE IS NO MASTERY OF ADVANCED MOVES WITHOUT PRIOR MASTERY OF BASIC ONES. So often I see students rush through ukemi rolling drills to get to what they think is interesting - yet the very thing they are rushing towards is impossible to do well without those basic skills they are brushing aside. Take pride in your basic skills and your mastery of them - they will make your journey to advanced skills far easier.
