Changes: It's been a strange week or two for the squad. At the Sapeteiro 6 event won by Gordon Ryan we had at least four of the main competitors pull out on short notice. Then the next week at SUG 3 Garry Tonon was offered three different opponents in a week due to pull outs, Gordon Ryan was offered two. Now this week at Fight2Win again there are numerous pull outs. Gabriel Arges, the very talented world champion has had to pull out of a much anticipated match with Garry Tonon due to late training injury. Gordon Ryan had defeated Mr Arges via heel hook in the past, but Mr Arges has won many matches over opponents of the highest level since then - it would have been a great match. Jeff Monson had to pull out of his match with ADCC gold and silver medalist Joao Assis. For a moment it appeared that Gordon Ryan would come in on 24 hours notice to take on Mr Assis in what would have been a fascinating battle, but Mr Assis declined, understandably citing a need for additional training time to face Mr Ryan. Then Bill Cooper pulled out of his match with AJ Agazarm. In the end we are left with a rather strange match up - Garry Tonon vs AJ Agazarm IN A GI!! 😜😂 This should be interesting. Mr Agazarm has spent a significant amount of time training with our team, but that was always no gi. Mr Tonon never had a problem with him in that context, but Mr Tonon has not trained seriously in a gi in a very long time. Add to this that Mr Agazarm has a rather low opinion of Mr Tonon's skills, whilst Mr Tonon has an even lower opinion of Mr Agazarms skills and will be cornered by our dear friend  Jake Shields, who has an even lower opinion of both Mr Agazarms skills and character and cheered on by Mr Ryan who has the lowest opinion of Mr Agazarm of them all 😂😂😂 This one may turn into a dog fight! Mostly we like matches that appeal to us because of technical and tactical elements on display encased in the sportsmanship of jiu jitsu - every now and then we just like to see two people that don't like each other go at it 😜😜 - I have a feeling this match will be the latter type 😂😂 I can't wait to see if Garry remembers how to tie a belt properly 😉😜
