A great performance: Robert Whittaker, the New Zealand born/Australia based MMA fighter put in a tremendous performance against Cuban middle weight sensation, Yoel Romero to take a unanimous decision victory. The fight itself was a superb example of neutralizing a very dangerous opponents weapons and enduring injury and a strong starting adversary in order create what was essentially two fights in one evening - Romero took the first two rounds with his wrestling skills and explosive leg kicking. Then rounds three through five was a completely different fight, with Mr Whittaker taking the offensive on a fading opponent, shutting down the wrestling and imposing his own game to take three rounds in a row. This was testimony to the professionalism of Mr Whittaker and his team, made all the more impressive by the fact that it was all done while carrying an apparent injury from the beginning of the match. Mr Whittaker has now dispatched the two men most people considered the two best title contenders in the division in back to back fights in decisive fashion. Along the way he has shown he can beat the best strikers, wrestlers and jiu jitsu players in the UFC. However, this win was much more than just a standout fight performance. It teaches a far deeper lesson than this. The last decade has seen the rise of "super camps" in MMA. Most athletes, especially those in the top tier, are based in a few dominant camps - Top Team, Jacksons, AKA, Blackhouse, BlackZillians etc. These camps provide massive support and infrastructure for the athletes, training facilities, medical and financial support, media help etc etc. It is increasingly a corporate approach to training. What is remarkable about Mr Whittaker and his team is that they did it all on their own, in a nation far from the usual centers of MMA. It is an inspirational story of how dedicated, self starting, highly motivated individuals can out perform the big established brands with enough hard work and passion. What a great night for Mr Whittaker and his coaching staff, and for Australasian MMA and indeed, for anyone who believes in the power of a few good men with a goal, passion and a professional demeanor
