Reflections on my students - Chris Weidman: I have been blessed throughout my coaching career to have many outstanding students infused with talent, drive and a tremendous work ethic. One of my favorite memories will always be the incredible series of wins that took Chris Weidman from a talented newcomer in the UFC to a run of victories that made him a contender and then ultimately, UFC middleweight champion - by defeating the greatest Middleweight of all time, Anderson Silva - twice. One of my favorite memories of Mr Weidman occurred when he went to San Jose California to fight Mark Munoz as part of his campaign for a title shot. The match with Mr Munoz was in a minor UFC show midweek - UFC on Fuel TV on a Tuesday or Wednesday night. We arrived on Saturday to prepare. That Saturday night in Las Vegas, Anderson Silva had his second fight with Chael Sonnen - one of the biggest fights in UFC history. We wanted to watch the fight so we went to a local sports bar, but it was completely crowded and we could not get a seat. Mr Weidman, his faithful friend, Gian Villante and myself had to stand outside and watch through the windows. It was so crowded that people spilled outside. No one knew who Mr Weidman was. Finally one young man walked up and asked if Mr Weidman was a fighter. He replied, "yes - and I want to fight Anderson Silva and beat him," pointing at the screen. As he said those words, Mr Silva crushed Mr Sonnen with a knee strike and follow up. The young man said, "you don't want to fight that guy," and walked away. When I cast my mind back to that night, I am struck by how Mr Weidman was invisible to them - a nobody - even a fool to the one person who recognized him; but in his own mind he was full of resolve and confidence in his vision and dream. As we walked away from the crowd no one could guess that almost a year later that unrecognized nobody staring through the window and who could not even get a seat at the bar would defeat the idol that they had all come to see. NEVER LET THE CURRENT CIRCUMSTANCES OF YOUR LIFE DISCOLOR OR MARR THE VISION YOU HAVE FOR YOURSELF IN THE FUTURE
