Three the hard way: The full squad is back in action in truly great competition action against three of the best grapplers in the world in the near future. Gordon Ryan starts it off with a very tough match up against IBJJF no gi world champion Lucas "Hulk" Barbosa for the 205 pound title at Fight to Win Pro 30 in New Jersey on April 8th. Mr Ryan's last matches were at his actual weight - 170 pounds welterweight, but he wants to test himself as he so often does, against the big men at light heavyweight. Mr Barbossa recently won gold at Five Grappling Super League, surpassing great world champions like Leandro Lo and Tarsis Humpreys with a mix of great technique and crushing physical power that showed why even the strongest men in the sport call him "hulk." Then Eddie Cummings returns to action in a truly fascinating battle against one of the best leg lockers in IBJJF competition - three time world no gi champion, Samir Chantre, a brilliant tactician on the mats in Philadelphia on April 15. After this Garry Tonon will take on the great MMA grappler Shinya Aoki at ONE Championship: Dynasty of Heroes in Singapore on May 26. Mr Aoki is a truly brilliant grappler with an amazing competition record in MMA He is a master of entering submissions from standing, often with spectacular flying variations. This will be a great match between two of the most dynamic grapplers on the planet. I am always excited to see my students compete, but now more so than ever. The reason is because all three senpai (senior students) are really starting to develop their own unique technical innovations that go beyond my teachings and into an independent and very exciting repertoire of moves and tactics that is thrilling for me as a coach to observe. I am certain 2017 will be a year where these young men rise to a new level of development. Though my body is currently having some issue and problems, my mind has never been so excited by these technical developments that these three outstanding technicians of the science of control and submission are developing. I have been watching in the gym - soon the world will watch on stage against three truly impressive opponents!
