Reflections on combat jiu jitsu: EBI 11 featured a show within a show - a combat jiu jitsu format fought in between the regular event bouts. It allowed palm strikes and slaps on the ground in addition to the usual full array of submission attacks. Could this be a viable format for future shows? Let's begin the discussion by pointing out exactly what CJJ was intended to do, since there seems to be some confusion here. It was NOT intended to answer the question as to whether jiu jitsu works in a fight. MMA has already answered this question and answered it much better than any CJJ tournament ever will. What it WAS designed to do was to create grappling matches where athletes could not stall excessively and clam up to avoid the submissions game or make use of contrived positions in ground grappling that have no relevance to real fighting. The idea was to use the Palm strikes and slaps to open opponents up and create movement that would promote the use of submissions. This is a fine goal. We have only one four man tournament as evidence - not enough for a definite opinion, but enough for some initial thoughts. First, the format was fun and popular. The in house crowd liked it and I think it's fair to say the average fan can understand and appreciate a simple slap to the face much more readily than an intricate hand fighting sequence to a stranglehold. One the other hand I have some reservations. The slaps did NOT create more submission attempts or more movement than the regular rule set, indeed, the slaps could be used as a substitute for real action (submission) rather than as a catalyst to it. The highest submission rate of the night by far was Gordon Ryan in the regular event who didn't need slaps to create movement and submission opportunities- just good technique and a mindset that orients him in that direction. My main concern is that elite grappling athletes will stay away from ebi if it becomes a CJJ format. I can't imagine any bjj world champions entering a CJJ competition, yet ebi needs them if it is to be taken seriously as a promotion. As such I believe the best use of CJJ is as a fun and entertaining "show within a show" not a main event  @flograppling
