Humor in unlikely situations: In combat sports sometimes the funniest things occur totally out of the blue and amongst all the anxieties, make for great memories. In the 1980's a campy martial arts movie, The Karate Kid  was released. It featured a young man moving to a new town and getting bullied by a group of toughs from a the local karate school, the cobra kai's. The young hero learns karate and takes on the local thugs in a tournament where he defeats several of them on the way to the final. The evil sensei of the Cobra Kai dojo recognizes the threat of the newly trained hero and tells one of his athletes to perform an illegal sweeping technique to break the heroes leg. He uttered the now infamous command to "sweep the leg" which has now found its way into contemporary culture as something to say anytime you want to advocate underhanded or dirty tactics to gain victory. The hero, Daniel, somehow survives the pain of the illegal technique and gets to the final against the best of the cobra Kai students, whose name was Johnny. The evil sensei again encourages the use of attacks to the now damaged leg and says, "sweep the leg Johnny." Daniel again survives and goes in to win, earning the respect of his tormentors, a hot girl friend, some dope looking cars and a pat on the back from his sensei - everyone leaves happy. Some thirty years later, Georges St -Pierre was slated to fight what would become his last title defense at welterweight against the juggernaut KO specialist Johny Hendricks. The fight camp was a very tense affair and as the fight began, Mr St-Pierre hit an immediate takedown into guillotine and the crowd roared. Then the two circled and gauged each other, there was a strange quiet spell where you could clearly hear the fighters breathing, the opposite corners instructions etc. suddenly an audience member with a booming, stentorian voice shouted out, "SWEEP THE LEG JOHNY!!!" In the midst of all the action, I turned to Firas Zahabi and said, "Dude, that was pretty f**king funny," and we got back into the business of coaching. Who would ever guess that a cheesy line from a movie I saw as a teen would come back in such a way and at such a time! 😂😂
