Training alone - Three directions to make genuine progress when you can’t be in the dojo: Whenever I have students who can’t make it to the dojo for regular training I always encourage to work hard in three specifics ways. The first is to put time into solo movement drills/training. Every sport has a unique set of postural and movement demands required to play efficiently - those of Jiu Jitsu put an extraordinary emphasis on floor movement, especially from supine (back on the floor) positions. The more efficiently you exhibit the underlying movements of a sport, the better you will perform the moves and the faster you will learn new ones. Second, stay in good shape. Jiu Jitsu is a contact sport where physicality plays a big role in the outcome. This is an opportunity to increase your overall physical prowess with gains in strength and flexibility. Over the years I have seen every variation of strength and conditioning program. No one method stood out as obviously superior to the others. I’ve never seen an athlete or group of athletes take on a new strength program and suddenly get dramatically better results than they were previously. Find a program that suits you and which you enjoy and which has a proven record among respected athletes and trainers and you can’t go wrong. Third, seek to increase your knowledge of the sport in all aspects. Knowledge is power. Very often just knowing one new piece of information can get you a win where previously you would have lost. Video is the preferred method of knowledge acquisition when the dojo is closed. Study the games of the great athletes past and present, if you find that difficult due to inexperience (at championship level the action is sometimes difficult to understand or confusing or unclear), instructional videos from your favorite athletes are a great alternative. Using this three directional approach means that when you return your body will move better, you will be stronger and more flexible and your mind will know more - this will set you up for rapid progress rather than deterioration during your time off. It has worked for all my athletes and it will work for you too!
