Jiu jitsu takedowns - amplitude: In most grappling sports there is great value not only in takedowns, but in the AMPLITUDE of takedowns. In other words, the more FORCEFUL the takedown as measured by momentum, height, the relationship between feet and shoulders of the person thrown and whether it lands them flat on their back etc then HIGHER THE SCORE THE TAKEDOWN WILL BE GRANTED. So takedowns are graded and scored according to their amplitude. In the case of Judo if sufficient amplitude is achieved along with the back landing on the mat, the match is over. In Jiu jitsu things are very different. First, a takedown can never end a match, not matter how perfect the landing. Second, ALL TAKEDOWNS SCORE THE SAME - regardless of how high or low the amplitude. The biggest and most powerful throw scores the same two points as the smallest trip. It goes further than this. In Jiu jitsu increases in amplitude often get PUNISHED rather than rewarded. The more amplitude is put into a takedown, the greater the danger of ROLL THROUGH - were the momentum of the throw creates a situation where there is no control at the conclusion of the takedown. Jiu jitsu demands that there be three seconds of positional control at the conclusion of the takedown. If roll through creates a situation where the control is weak (and it often does) - no points will be scored (only an advantage). Thus there is no real motivation in Jiu jitsu for big high amplitude throws and some reason to see them as disincentivized. As such, Jiu jitsu tends to favor smaller takedowns that do the minimum to bring the match to the floor and enable control in the aftermath of the takedown. There are still other good reasons to learn big throws - they can be a very valuable tool in some self defense situations and they can have an intimidating effect in matches that you can use in your favor. However, when working your takedowns in Jiu jitsu, always remember that control has greater value than amplitude and practice accordingly.
