Uke and tori: Almost all drilling in Jiu jitsu is done with one athlete who is PERFORMING the move being practiced (Tori - the executor of the technique), and the other athlete who is BEING PERFORMED UPON (Uke - the receiver of the technique). One of the best ways to learn in Jiu jitsu is to be the Uke to a more advanced Tori. When I started Jiu jitsu I was just another face in the room, but in time I became Uke to my sensei, Renzo Gracie, and my seniors Matt Serra, Ricardo Almeida and Rodrigo Gracie. At first I was dreadful. Clumsy, out of place and poorly positioned. But as time passed I benefitted immensely as first, I felt what perfectly executed technique should feel like first hand, and in time I got closer and closer to replicating that in my own training. Second, I gained insight on technique that can only come from FEELING it rather than just watching it. Third, I learned about the correct reactions to the technique as they were taught in chains and combinations. When you are the Uke in training - see it for what it is - a grand opportunity to boost your skill level indirectly. Don’t turn your mind off when you’re the Uke and then turn it back on when you’re the Tori. Be an active and alert Uke who learns to balance just the right amount of light resistance with cooperation and good reaction and I promise YOU WILL LEARN ALMOST AS MUCH BEING THE UKE DURING DRILLS AS BEING THE TORI. Soon the best people in the dojo will want to drill with you and you will accelerate your learning even faster. If you are the guy that when it’s time to get a partner for drills and everyone walks away from you and no one makes eye contact or says they’re injured - that’s a pretty good sign that you are a lousy Uke and need to improve 😂😜 (I know because I was that guy when I started 😂😂). Over the years my students were all outstanding ukes and daily work in this capacity helped their progress as much as it helped mine. You can almost always make an accurate assessment of a students overall technical level by their proficiency in playing Uke - so when you’re training, work hard to be the best Uke you can to maximize every means of making development.
