You can do it! One of the most common questions I am asked is whether you can come back from injury and perform well in Jiu jitsu. It’s natural to doubt your ability to come back from a major setback. Around February 2nd 2019 Gordon Ryan fought a tough match against the great João Gabriel Rocha. About halfway through the match he completely tore his LCL off the bone  He was able to hold on and win a very close match but the damage was done. He was scheduled for reconstructive surgery and told that it would probably be a year until he was back to normal. This was tragic news as 2019 was a n ADCC World Championship year - missing the worlds would be a terrible blow to any elite grappler. Initially he could not train at all. The only form of training was mental knowledge training. He would come to class and simply watch from the sidelines to keep his mind in the game. This went in for months. Early tests showed he was regaining linear mobility quite well,  but the kind of inward and outward joint mobility required for Jiu jitsu just wasn’t there. Finally he got cleared for light training. The early sessions were not very encouraging. He was a late to every move and often I could see him struggling to perform even basic moves. There are few things more frustrating to a Jiu Jitsu player than knowing what you are supposed to do, but being physically incapable of doing it. Eight weeks out from ADCC I fully assumed he would not be going to the World Championships - he just wasn’t at that level. I was planning the team performance around the other athletes and was assuming Gordon would be a useful training partner for the competitors but not competing himself. One day Mr Ryan came in and had a very good workout. He performed several of his favorite moves very well. Next day he looked even better. By the end of the week he was beating everyone in the gym. At four weeks he repeatedly and easily finished a famous visiting athlete - it was obvious - he was back in the game. Four weeks later he went to give one of the greatest performances in ADCC history - there will never be a shortage of people counting you out - just make sure you yourself are never one of them.
