The story of the sniper: Part of the pleasure of teaching at a major academy in NYC is the breadth of people who pass through for instruction in the kingly art of jiu jitsu They come from all walks of life and every corner of the globe. One who left an impression upon me that struck me as useful to students of jiu jitsu was an American sniper who had returned home from active duty. After training we talked about his work. I have always had an interest in weaponry and we talked about his craft and compared it with his interest in jiu jitsu. At one point he turned to me and said, " John, my world is a world of uncertainty. I can't guarantee that I will get into a good position to hit my target. I might get seen before I get there. My target may not be in the place I anticipated. The course of battle might interrupt my plans in some way I never even foresaw. But I do have one certainty. IF YOU GET ME TO A SECURE HIDEOUT WITHIN ONE THOUSAND METERS OF MY TARGET, it does not matter whether it's day or night, rain or sunshine, warm or snow - THAT MAN IS A DEAD MAN - THAT MUCH IS CERTAIN. We were silent for a moment as we reflected upon his words - then we both smiled as we recognized at the same time THAT EXACTLY THE SAME SENTIMENT IS TRUE IN JIU JITSU. Fights are uncertain affairs, we can't guarantee that we will get into a good position to lock in a good submission hold, we might get knocked out before we get there, we may struggle to get the opponent to the ground and keep him there. But IF we get him in a well locked breaking or strangulation position - OUR MECHANICS OUGHT TO BE SO WELL TRAINED AND REHEARSED, that  like the sniper, we do not see failure as a a possibility. All jiu jitsu athletes can benefit from this mindset. Research and rehearse your finishing mechanics to a point where you know that if the opportunity to lock in a tight submission should arise in the whirling chaos of a fight- the fight is yours. We can't be confident about everything in combat - but that is something that every jiu jitsu fighter worth his salt must know and believe
