High percentage submission holds: Our approach to jiu jitsu is centered around the idea of CONTROL THAT LEADS TO SUBMISSION. Accordingly, a large part of our training time is invested in perfecting the mechanical details of the most high percentage submission holds. People are often surprised to learn that I only teach around 15-20 families of submission holds. These are the most successful types of hold in high level competition in all weight categories and across all belt levels. There are only so many ways the human body can be broken and strangled by another body. Among those we find around fifteen to twenty types of hold are truly effective in competition. There are innumerable other holds, but I don't believe the meager results gained from them justify the amount of training time it would require to perfect their use - instead we focus all our attention of those with a high probability of success. You will notice that I said "families" of submission holds - thus the American lock (ude garame) is one such family. Within that single family there are many, many variations and still more set ups etc etc. thus fifteen to twenty families of submissions represents an enormous amount of study. Among them you will find all those families that one sees in every grappling event, juji gatame armlocks, kimura, knee bar, figure four toe hold etc etc. A big part of my job as the coach of this program is to deepen my students knowledge of the essential families of submission hold and and then embed them in coherent systems that enable a student to apply them against strong resistance; then let their knowledge of the mechanics of the move create the kind of pressure that will force a submission against even a very determined foe. Here fifteen year old Nicky Ryan gives Eddie Bravo, maestro of his own system - the rubber guard -  a nice view of one of his favorite high percentage submissions, the heel hook, as he uses our ashi garami system to work into a variation of the move to secure victory in a recent super fight.
