Pioneers: As an instructor, my path was relatively easy. I started under one of the best known and most knowledgeable teachers in one of the biggest and best academy's in the world. A much tougher task is taken on by those instructors who have to go into territory where jiu jitsu is undeveloped and build a following and student base in an area where there is little or no background in jiu jitsu. My teacher Renzo Gracie was a pioneer. When he came to NYC in the mid 1990's there was virtually no jiu jitsu culture here at all. Students began at absolutely no understanding of ground grappling - a simple triangle was considered a very advanced move by us. In beginners class we had to have it explained to us that bottom guard position was not the same as bottom mount position. Poor Renzo had to go from Gracie Barra in Rio De Janeiro, training with the best black belts in the world, to teaching a bunch of stiff, uncoordinated, woefully ignorant klutzes who did not know the difference between an underhook and an overhook. The fact that Sensei was able to create so many champions from such poor raw material under such conditions is testimony not only to his teaching skill but also his patience! Nowadays there is no need for this pioneering work in America - the sport has matured here. However, in many parts of the world, the sport is still in its infancy. RGA has affiliates around the world who travel vast distances to learn the sport and our approach to it and carry this knowledge back to the jiu jitsu frontiers. Kurdt George, from Renzo Gracie Cape Town, South Africa has done incredible work building the sport in his nation and training with the squad to stay current with our developments. Today Sensei gave  him a well deserved black belt for his achievements - one pioneer to another - both men doing a stellar job of growing our beloved sport and ensuring future growth. Well done Kurdt George! And a big hello to South African jiu jitsu from  NYC, from Renzo and the squad in the blue basement! 🇧🇷🇿🇦🇿🇦🇺🇸
