Shiai Intensity: Most athletes feel a very different intensity level when they enter competition (shiai) in comparison with daily sparring in the gym. This is perfectly natural and in some cases it has benefits. As a general rule however, I seek to reduce the overall difference between competition intensity and gym intensity as much as possible. I like to see athletes compete in a relaxed demeanor rather than an extremely intense one (there are exceptions obviously) so that the bridge between the gym and the stage is a narrow one to cross. Developing this relaxed shiai demeanor takes time - but when it comes, I find the common problem of lowered performance on stage is greatly reduced. There is however, one area of the sport where this general approach does not apply - the use of finishing holds/submissions. These must be applied with greater intensity in shiai than in the gym due to much greater levels of resistance found in competition than usual circumstances. This does not mean recklessness or unsporting behavior - it simply means that submissions have to be locked tighter than usual and with greater focus and power along with a stronger drive to completion than would be appropriate in a gym setting among friends and teammates. There simply has to be a stronger threat of potential damage if the opponent is to tap in submission - if that potential is not there,
competitive opponents will simply not surrender. Dealing with these two aspects of intensity, lowering overall shiai intensity closer to gym levels; whilst at the same time raising submission intensity levels is a big part of contest preparation for our athletes. Here kohai brown belt Matthew Tesla shows great competition submission intensity as he finishes one of 10th planets best black belts, Boogyman Martinez via heel hook during an outstanding run to the final of Sapeteiro 6 grappling invitational this weekend. His reconciliation of overall intensity levels and submission intensity levels was very impressive for a developing student.
