Ryan brothers dominate: Last at night at Fight2Win Pro 34, another great event for the promotion, the squad standout Ryan brothers took center stage and stole the show with two impressive victories. Fifteen year old Nicky Ryan won his match with a well applied ashi garami to heel hook in less than 30 seconds. The promoters were puzzled as to what level of belt Nicky Ryan should fight at - he is too young to have an adult belt. I don't blame them for the confusion, I am his teacher and I don't know what belt to give him! In the end they went with purple belt and Nicky is now the fight to Win belt holder in his weight category. Big brother, Gordon Ryan was the main event where he took on the very talented and successful Eliot Kelly, multiple time world champion, ADCC trials champion and A man who has defeated some legends of the sport such as Xande Ribeiro. Mr Ryan however, was not to be denied. His confidence was very high coming off a very good training camp and he got his characteristic submission based game into operation. Mr Kelly showed some very skillful defenses, but the sustained pressure Mr Ryan can impose is very difficult to deal with and eventually the breakthrough came via a beautiful sankaku (triangle) combined with armbar (juju gatame). I am very happy Mr Ryan was able to show his sankaku skills. Both Ryan brothers excel in this technique - in fact they have invented their own unique versions of it that we named after them, but their success with leg locks and back attacks has overshadowed their incredible sankaku skills on the big stage. I believe this will change in the future- in the gym it is their main weapon - it's only a matter of time until this translates into competition (shiai). Mr Ryan expressed to me great admiration for his opponent, Mr Kelly, complimenting him on his defensive skills, wrestling skills and fighting spirit. Both men came out looking to win in an exciting fashion, which created a memorable match. A great night for the Ryan brothers whose diligent work, inventive approach to technique and growing confidence continue to impress me.
