Recently I was asked to appear in a scene in the TV show "Billions." The scene required us to show a beginner in jiu jitsu in a first introductory lesson. The writers asked me if there was a move that represented well the general nature of the sport to a wide audience, most of whom know nothing about it. My answer was a confident "yes" - Juji jime- the cross collar strangle performed from the mounted position. My reasoning was this - the classical approach to jiu jitsu involves taking an opponent to the floor where he is more easily controlled, then working past his legs, through a hierarchy of pins culminating in the mount or rear mount. From there, applying a submission hold to end the fight. I chose Juji jime because beginning jiu jitsu should always be in a gi, both for practical and cultural /historical reasons, and of course Juji jime requires a jacket. Moreover, strangleholds represent the notion of a bloodless and relatively painless  victory - one of the key features of jiu jitsu. Even a naive viewer would be able to recognize the value of the mounted position, the effectiveness of a stranglehold and the virtue of victory without the need for bludgeoning a foe to bloody defeat. On a deeper level - to those who DO study the art, I chose Juji jime because it represents something very different - the notion of PROGRESSIVE BASICS. Juji jime was taught to us all in our very first beginner classes - yet we will all be using it until our last days in the sport - refining it, perfecting it, learning all of its subtleties and nuances. THE BEST TECHNIQUES IN OUR SPORT TAKE A FEW MOMENTS TO LEARN, BUT A LIFETIME TO PERFECT. This notion of path from beginner to expert is perfectly represented by Juji jime from mount - the tokui waza (favorite technique) of the great Roger Gracie. In his hands it was anything but a beginners move - it was an unstoppable engine of destruction that he used repeatedly at world championship level and taught the jiu jitsu world the value of building upon the beginners foundation in the sport and over time, making it the most advanced move of them all.
