Composure: There are many important attributes that athletes must possess if they are to rise to the top echelons of competition. One attribute that I attach great importance to, but which does not get much attention in most people's minds, is COMPOSURE. The reason I value it so highly is because I see jiu jitsu first and foremost as PROBLEM SOLVING ACTIVITY. It is awfully difficult to solve complex problems in a state of mental exhaustion or chaos. Having a clear mind is the prerequisite to identifying a problem and searching for ways to overcome it. Many people identify combat as a battle of WILLS. The person who wants victory more will take it. Whilst I agree that there definitely is a contest of wills, the MEANS by which that contest is decided is typically through one persons superior ability to create problems for their opponent while solving those problems the opponent creates at a faster rate than the opponent can. This is best done by maintaining a level of composure that facilitates thinking, whether it be conscious thought, or semi conscious reflexes honed by training. It is thus of the first importance that in your gym training, you train this attribute of composure just like you train other attributes such as strength, speed, flexibility, tactical aggression or passivity etc etc. I often find students really struggle with developing composure. We all have natural instincts in stressful situations. In combat, these often push us in the direction of maximum effort/aggression in ways that preclude thinking/problem solving. The result is a short period of thrashing about followed by exhaustion leading to greatly diminishing performance as time passes. We all put great value on developing our physical attributes -
But you may be pleasantly surprised how much more successfully you can use those physical attributes when you work equally as hard to develop your mental attributes alongside them. 
Begin with composure - for only then will your physical actions be governed by a mind that is calm enough to actively seek to solve problems rather than fight instinctively. Here,  15 year old Nicky Ryan shows great composure while hunting for another submission
