Recognize: It was great to see some of the achievements of the squad recognized at the flograppling 2016 grappling awards. They were nominated for five awards and won two. Gordon Ryan was voted best upset of the year for his win via submission over the great Keenan Cornelius. Garry Tonon won the award for no gi match of the year for his epic encounter with the great Leg locking maestro Rousimar Palhares. Interestingly, Mr Tonon was nominated twice for match of the year for two separate bouts - a real distinction. The two bouts were very different from one another due to their very different rule structure. Mr Tonon's was a blaze of action, featuring high lifts and slams, plenty of action both on the ground and standing, many submission attempts and quick positional work to back attacks. Mr Ryan's was a calm, measured chess match with long periods of calm interspersed with powerful positional attacks by Mr Cornelius and submission attacks by Mr Ryan. Both matches were thrilling to coach, by in very different ways. I love the purity of submission only with no time limit, but realize that they are unlikely to happen often for business reasons. The shorter matches with criteria for wins are much more spectator friendly for the average fan. Still, I was proud to see the squad put  on such fine displays in varying formats against such dangerous opponents and get recognition for the hard work I see them put in day after day in the gym. Interestingly however, public recognition must always be preceded by private recognition. It is in the dojo that success is first experienced. It is the recognition by your training partners of your progress, a technique well performed, a sparring session showing improvements, an approving nod from your coach, which first tell you that your hard work is paying off and that which once seemed impossible for you is becoming normal. In this process of recognition is born the beginnings of confidence and self belief, and with time, discipline and with continued cycles of action, achievement and recognition can come something great and remarkable - recognition can go from friends and coaches to recognition from the sport itself
