Australian jiu jitsu gets a hero:  One of the features of this years ADCC world champions was the growing internationalization of jiu jitsu/Grappling. Russia had a strong team and though they did not win medals this time, they impressed with their skills. The local Finnish team had much to cheer about with a standout performance by 10th Planet representative, Elvira Karppinen. USA had a great showing via Gordon Ryan, JT Torres and Orlando Sanchez among others. One of the really unexpected breakthrough performances however, came from the Australian team. This was a shock to many, but not to me. Most of my family has moved to Australia and after my hip replacement surgery I went down to see them. I taught seminars there and was impressed by the enthusiasm and skill of the locals. At one gym in Melbourne my demonstration partner for a three hour seminar on leg locks was Lachlan Giles, who had distinguished himself in EBI events here in the US. After the seminar he talked to me about the local team and a talented fellow called Craig Jones. I got to see him up close at EBI 11 - he did not win, but I thought his game looked very impressive and he and Lachlan were doing a great job developing their game, even having some success with some of the material we worked at the seminar. On the first day of ADCC, Mr Jones was absolutely one of the most impressive performers, with two fine submission victories over heavily favored Leandro Lo and Maurilo Santana - both extremely well established world champions.  This is increasing internationalization of the sport and greater diversity on the medal podium is a very healthy thing for the growth of the sport. It is also a welcome reminder that anyone in any location from any gym can beat the best if they create a sound training program and have the discipline to stick to it. Well done Mr Jones and hats off to the Australian jiu jitsu culture that created such great competitors in relative isolation from the more well known centers of the sport. 🇦🇺🇦🇺
