Interpretations: Here is an old photograph probably taken around 2000 at Renzo Gracie's old academy. It is a good representation of one of the central features of jiu jitsu - multiplicity of views. Mr Gracie, myself and three of his most distinguished black belts, Matt Serra, Shawn Williams and Robert Constance are watching action unfold in front of us. There are five pairs of eyes watching one event. You can be quite sure that each of us is seeing a very different picture from the man next to him. Sensei is probably seeing an incredibly quick and efficient entry into an arm in guillotine, Mr Serra is probably scheming a way to clear the arm and take a high elbow guillotine. Mr Williams is probably looking an a means of sitting back to closed guard and trapping an arm in a way that sets up many of his favorite attacks and Mr Constance is probably seeing the opportunity for a turn over into a pulverizing pin. I am probably looking for an entrance to either legs or back. One event - five interpretations. All of them were very effective. Everyone agrees that there are many incorrect ways to move and act in jiu jitsu - BUT DO NOT EXTRAPOLATE FROM THIS THAT THERE IS ONLY ONE RIGHT WAY. On the contrary, for almost any given scenario in the sport, there are a multitude of effective methods. Which one you choose is largely determined by your personality and body type, though sometimes your teaching history can be a factor also. One of the great privileges of training under Mr Gracie was the freedom he gave us in choosing our styles - that is why you see so much variation among his students. Use effectiveness in sparring and competition as your primary guide. As you grow in experience you will be able to feel and ultimately just look at a move and make good assessments as to its mechanical and tactical value. Until then, if it works well in sparring against  good people, that's a solid sign that you are on the right track. Variation is a leading source of progress in jiu jitsu. Sometimes it may lead you temporarily astray, but don't worry, recovery is simple and progress will begin anew.
