Reflections on my Sensei - The little things reveal the big things: Often I am asked to tell stories about the many adventures of my sensei, Renzo Gracie. He has an action packed life that could easily make a top rated reality show. Yet when people ask me to tell a story that illustrates his character, I tell a story that has very little drama and action, yet says much about his character and his philosophy. Back in the mid 1990's, Mr Gracie and I had finished a late training session prior to an upcoming professional fight in Japan. We were in his car looking for a place to eat. A few days prior I had read in the newspapers about a spate of of murders of NYC taxi drivers. In response, the taxi union had installed a special orange light on the back of NYC cabs which they could discreetly turn on if they felt threatened in order to alert policemen driving past them. As Renzo drove, I saw a cab in front of us with the panic light activated. I told Renzo what I had read - before I could even finish, he gunned the engine and in a flash raced ahead of the cab and turned in front of it to stop it at the curb like some crazy cop show episode. Before I could even get out of the car, Mr Gracie was at the drivers window. I got to the rear door on the other side and opened it. Inside was a terrified driver and in the back seat, an extremely good looking and glamorous woman in a very short skirt - they thought we were thugs rather than rescuing heroes! Very quickly it became apparent there was no danger either to anyone or from anyone and the driver had simply accidentally turned on the device. The four of us laughed and bade each other well and we got back in the car and drove off. Years later I reminded Renzo of the incident - he did not even remember it - there was so little action it did not even register in his memory among all the drama he has been a part of. Yet to me it illustrates much. Mr Gracie always told me, MARTIAL ARTS WERE NOT CREATED TO MAKE THE STRONG STRONGER, BUT TO GIVE THE WEAK A HELPING HAND IN A PREDATORY AND UNKIND WORLD. Many people speak this message, but I was always very proud to know my sensei LIVED it.
