Subjecting the student to stress: A well known image of teaching is that of the drill instructor. In every military of every nation their modus operandi is the same - to subject the recruits to severe pressure as they learn the skills and organizational structure necessary to secure peace and wage war. Have you ever wondered why they all teach the same way? And have done so in this manner since the earliest days of military history? In every other area of human teaching, there are many different theories and methods, but in all the militaries of the world throughout history - only one. The main reason I believe, is to prepare recruits for the most stress filled environment known to man - war. As the environment in which the student is expected to perform rises in stress level, THE MODE OF TEACHING MUST REFLECT THIS. Student must be subjected to an appropriate degree of stress in daily training to prepare them for whatever stress level they are expected to perform in. Now there is no scenario in which jiu jitsu comes even close to the stress of war, but high level combat sports can be a environment significantly tougher than most people are used to. When students have professional aspirations, I tend to be considerably more demanding, obnoxious, critical, confrontational and stress inducing than I would normally be. The rational is exactly the same as that of a drill sergeant. If a student is to survive and flourish in a harsh, competitive environment, he must learn in a harsh environment. Of course this must be kept within reason. Sometimes I see senseis engage in behavior that goes too far. As a general rule however, I do favor a mode of teaching for those with competitive aspirations (or even just a strong desire to get good at the sport) that surprises many visitors with its foul mouthed, hyper critical, intolerant ways. Of course this is not a good way to operate for an average class, but among the more seasoned students with a desire to excel in the hurly burly of competitive combat sports, a little vitriol thrown into the instruction helps create minds that deal better with stress than overly nurtured students.
