An inspiring story: Last night was the first EBI event for women - a milestone for professional women's grappling. There were some outstanding athletes representing their various teams, including world champions. When the smoke cleared it was eighteen year old Erin Blanchfield who won the EBI belt. She is relatively unknown in grappling circles, I thought it would be a good idea to talk a little about her and her achievement, as I believe there is much to inspire and educate us all as we train and try to make progress. Ms Blanchfield trains at an RGA affiliate run by Karl Pravec @silverfoxbjj a black belt from my sensei, Renzo Gracie. She got her purple belt there around six months ago. When she heard about the female EBI event, she began coming into the city to train alongside the squad, doing the very same drills, conceptual training and sparring that our athletes do to prepare for these events. Now bear in mind, she lives one and half hours away from NYC and still came in all that way most days a week, in addition to her night training at Siver Fox academy - it shows the dedication this young woman approached this great test. She was a great student, very quiet and respectful. She would wordlessly perform all the drills and complete every training assignment. Within a short time she showed incredible improvement and was submitting partners that previously overwhelmed her. In her final week of training she submitted two partners I had never seen her submit before. On the big night she showed the same kind of quiet, determined, well directed and technically sound jiu jitsu that she showed us in the training room all summer and went on to go further than all the more highly ranked and more well known opponents to take the belt! She submitted two 10th Planet athletes who specialize in this kind of event, and beat in over time two other athletes to win. It is a great lesson in how a determined self starter with motivation and a plan can overcome the odds and get to their cherished goal. What a remarkable performance by Ms Blanchfield- not just on Sunday night, but all summer, as she quietly and professionally laid the groundwork for her success at the big show!
