What will you do next? It is natural that when we perform any given move in Jiu Jitsu that we apply maximum effort and concentration into it - after all, only COMPLETED moves score points or result in submission. However, it is extremely important for your development that you create a sense of when you have the preconditions necessary to complete a move and when you don’t. We all spend far too much energy and commitment to moves that have long since ceased to be likely to succeed. You must be able to recognize the likelihood of a move succeeding and when it appears unlikely; TO HAVE A VIABLE PLAN OF ACTION TO FOLLOW IT UP WITH ANOTHER MOVE. During the application of any technique there must be In the back of your mind a clear plan of action to switch to should the initial attack falter. How much commitment you ought to put into the CURRENT attack will be determined by your ability to READ THE CURRENT STATE OF THAT ATTACK (do you have the necessary conditions to make it workin this scenario?) AND MAKE A SNAP JUDGMENT AS TO WHETHER YOU SHOULD CONTINUE WITH WHAT YOU HAVE OR PREPARE TO SWITCH TO SOMETHING ELSE. The onus is on you to develop a mindset that constantly asks WHAT IS THE NEXT STEP, rather than the more natural but less successful, “let me give everything I’ve got to this move come what may.” Here, Nicky Ryan goes with commitment after the leg of the great Keenan Cornelius in a spirited training session. The heel hook attempt is at a critical stage - the knee of Mr Cornelius is on the cusp of Mr Ryan’s knee-line. There is a choice now between adjustments to the current move, switching to a new move or abandonment to a neutral restart. Simply holding on grimly could actually offer counter attacks to a skilled opponent like this and so is almost never a good option. Next time you train- go on to the mat with the mindset of a person who fights hard for what they have, but with the wisdom of someone who knows to relinquish what they soon won’t have, so that you can go on to claim something better
