Self assessment: Every time train in Jiu jitsu we get a very clear idea of how we performed because of the unambiguous nature of sparring. If your partner is better than you they will usually submit you. If your partner is roughly the same level and size it will typically be an exhausting dogfight without clear result. It’s natural to leave every workout strongly doubting whether you are making any tangible progress. This is because as you rise in skill level EVERYONE AROUND YOU IS RISING AT ROUGHLY THE SAME SPEED AND THEY ARE LEARNING SIMILAR TECHNIQUES AND TACTICS SO THEY KNOW MOST OF YOUR ATTACKS. As such you never really feel like you’re making forward progress. It’s natural that you should feel discouraged by this - no one likes to expend large amounts of time and effort without result. Every so often the Jiu jitsu gods will throw a morsel your way. You may be matched against a visitor who doesn’t know your moves and immediately everything feels easier. You might be matched against someone who used to be much better than you but who took time off or moved away and now in the rematch you suddenly do much better than ever before. You might learn a new move or gain a new insight that allows you to break through against partners you could not do anything to previously. It’s then that you suddenly realize that despite all your nights of despair and doubt - you HAVE been making progress after all. Don’t just have faith in Jiu Jitsu - have faith in YOURSELF too. It’s almost impossible to train hard and long without making decent progress. Be aware that the very nature of communal training will often hide this progress from you - so stay the course and learn to check that part of your mind that tells you that you will be permanently static - you won’t be. Understand that the path of Jiu jitsu is one of hard work over time where you will often doubt your progress, but where occasional joyful triumphs among a few big failures and a great many average or forgettable sessions will give you hope and direction for the future
