The rising star of grappling shows Who’s Number One run by @flograppling in Austin, Texas is on May 28! Australian superstar Craig Jones will replace Gordon Ryan in the main event. Sadly Gordon’s long battle with a protracted stomach illness is not going well and he will have to step out of the competition circuit until it is satisfactorily resolved. Craig Jones stepped in on short notice to replace him. He has a very tough and dangerous opponent - the great world champion Luiz Panza - a master of leg locks who also excels at upper body submissions and has a great positional game as well. This will be a fascinating contrast in leg locking style. Mr Panza has devastating Achilles locks with a more traditional Jiu jitsu style - both straight and cross. Mr Jones has a more modern style focused around twisting locks and a systematic control game based around multiple ashi garami variations. One thing is certain - if either one gets a decisive grip on the leg - it’s over! Squad juniors Nicky Ryan and Oliver Taza take on very impressive opponent. Mr Ryan will face black belt standout Gabriel Almeida, who has world class Jiu jitsu and also excellent wrestling skills along with a big size advantage over Mr Ryan. Mr Taza will take on the brilliant AOJ athlete Johnatha Alves. Mr Alves has a very polished and refined game with beautiful positional transitions. There are many other great matches on the card, including brilliant American world champion Michael Musumici! Two of the toughest grapplers in the game, Vagner Rocha of Fight Sports and Josh Hinger of ATOS will clash in what will be a very hard fought match. Mr Hinger has an exceptionally dangerous guillotine but Mr Rocha has proven extremely resistant to even the best submission hunters and has an incredible ability to endure attacks, wear an opponent down get to victory - this should be a really great match. Talented AOJ athlete Jessa Khan takes on Pati Fontes. Both of these stand out athletes are really committing to the no gi game and this match will help them on their path to the top of the women’s division. I think Mica Galvao vs Andrew Tackett may be the match to watch! Hope you all enjoy the show!
